# Python Setup In Ubuntu

### 1. Install Python 3.13.5 from Source

Python is a high-level, interpreted programming language used to build all kinds of software — from simple scripts to complex web applications and data analysis tools.
The current version I am using is python `v3.13.5`. To install or update to the latest version, open your preferred terminal and run the following commands:

```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3 -y

```
#### Install required dependencies
```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y build-essential libssl-dev zlib1g-dev \
  libncurses5-dev libncursesw5-dev libreadline-dev libsqlite3-dev \
  libgdbm-dev libdb5.3-dev libbz2-dev libexpat1-dev liblzma-dev \
  tk-dev libffi-dev curl

```
#### Download and extract Python 3.13.5
```sh
cd /usr/src
sudo curl -O https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.13.5/Python-3.13.5.tgz
sudo tar xzf Python-3.13.5.tgz
cd Python-3.13.5

```
#### Set Python 3.13.5 as default python3 (optional)
```sh
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/python3 python3 /usr/local/bin/python3.13 1
sudo update-alternatives --config python3

```

#### Verify
```sh
python3 --version
Output: Python 3.13.5
```

### 2. Install PyCharm

PyCharm is a powerful Integrated Development Environment (IDE) specifically designed for programming in Python. Developed by JetBrains, PyCharm provides a complete toolkit for writing, testing, and debugging Python code efficiently and professionally.
The current version I am using is PyCharm `2025.1.2`. To install or update to the latest version, open your preferred terminal and run the following commands:

```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt install snapd

```
####  Install PyCharm (choose one):

```sh
sudo snap install pycharm-community --classic

```

####  Launch PyCharm
```sh
pycharm-community
```

### ⚙ Recommended PyCharm Plugins:
```sh
To boost your development experience, consider installing the following plugins:

.env files support – Readable environment variable files.

Atom Material Icons – Enhanced file explorer icons.

Git ToolBox – Advanced Git features.

Highlight Bracket Pair – Easy navigation through nested code.

Material Theme UI – Beautiful themes for PyCharm.

Lines Sorter – Quickly sort lines in a file.

PowerShell – PowerShell support if working cross-platform.

```
### 3. Install Pandas package (Excel, Json, Csv -Data Analysis)

For powerful data analysis and manipulation, Easy handling of structured data (CSV, Excel, SQL, JSON),Helps with data cleaning, filtering, sorting, grouping,Essential for data science, machine learning, and research, Integrates well with tools like NumPy, Matplotlib, Scikit-learn.open your preferred terminal and run the following commands:

```sh
pip install pandas
```
### 4. Install Pytest

Simple syntax to write tests,Powerful test discovery and fixtures,Generates clear test output,Supports assertions, parameterization, and plugins (like HTML reports).open your preferred terminal and run the following commands:

```sh
 pip install pytest
```
### 5. Install Parallel Execution Run test/Functio in parallel

Efficient Computation: Runs code in parallel instead of one-by-one.Faster Execution: Useful for data processing, testing, simulations.Batch Processing: Automate and run multiple commands simultaneously.open your preferred terminal and run the following commands:

```sh
 pip install pytest-xdist
```
### 6. Run Test Functio in parallel
```sh
pytest -n 3
```
### 7. Install Pytest HTML Report Generate
```sh
pip install pytest-html
```
### 8. Run HTML Report Open Browser Chrome
```sh
pytest --html=report.html
```
### 9. Install Pytest md Report Generate
```sh
pip install pytest-md-report
```
### 10. Run md Report Open Terminal Show Report
```sh
pytest --md-report --md-report-verbose=1
```
### 11. Install  Java for Allure Report Generate

Installing Java is essential if you want to run or develop software written in the Java programming language. Here's a clear breakdown of why you might need to install Java.open your preferred terminal and run the following commands:

```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt install default-jdk -y
```
### 12.  Verify installation Java
```sh
java -version
```
### 13. Download Allure commandline
```sh
VERSION=$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/allure-framework/allure2/releases/latest | grep tag_name | cut -d '"' -f 4)
wget https://github.com/allure-framework/allure2/releases/download/${VERSION}/allure-${VERSION}.tgz
```
### 14. Extract and move to /opt
```sh
tar -xvzf allure-${VERSION}.tgz
sudo mv allure-${VERSION} /opt/allure
```
### 15. Add to PATH
```sh
sudo ln -s /opt/allure/bin/allure /usr/bin/allure
```
### 16. Verify installation
```sh
allure --version
```
### 17. Install Allure Report Generate

The Allure Report summary is a dashboard or overview section of the test report generated by Allure, which is a popular test reporting framework used with tools like Pytest, JUnit, TestNG, etc.open your preferred terminal and run the following commands:

```sh
pip install allure-pytest
```
### 18. Run Allure Report 
```sh
pytest --alluredir=%allure_result_folder%
```
### 19. Run Allure Report 
```sh
pytest --alluredir=%allure_result_folder%
```
### 20. Install Pytest Sugar report Generate

Pytest-Sugar is a plugin for the pytest testing framework that,Replaces the default pytest terminal output,Adds a cleaner, more readable, and colorful test report,Displays real-time progress with a progress bar, counts, and status indicators,Easier to read pass/fail status with color,Shows how many tests are running in real-time,Gives a neat summary at the end (passed, failed, skipped, etc.Makes failed tests easier to spot and debug.open your preferred terminal and run the following commands:

```sh
pip install pytest-sugar
```
### 21. Run Sugar Report
```sh
pytest 
```
### 22. Install Selenium

Selenium is used in Python mainly for automating web browsers, and it’s a powerful tool for developers, testers, and data analysts.

```sh
pip install selenium
```
### 23. Version Check Selenium
```sh
pip show selenium
```
### 24. Install Jenkins

Jenkins with Python to automate testing, building, and deploying your Python applications.

```sh
pip install python-jenkins
```
### 25. Create Requirements

```sh
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```
### 26. Nedded same package Create Requirements
```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
